Expire mathttext-related deprecations (#22107)
matplotlib/matplotlib: doc/api/next_api_changes/removals/22107-OG.rst

Removal of deprecated ``mathtext`` APIs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following `matplotlib.mathtext` APIs have been removed:

> - ``Fonts`` and all its sublasses,
> - ``FontConstantsBase`` and all its sublasses,
> - ``Node`` and all its sublasses,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``Fonts`` and all its subclasses,
- ``FontConstantsBase`` and all its subclasses,
- ``Node`` and all its subclasses,
```

Author: Thanks! Sloppy...

- ``Ship``, ``ship``,
- ``Error``,
- ``Parser``,
- ``SHRINK_FACTOR``, ``GROW_FACTOR``,
- ``NUM_SIZE_LEVELS``,
- ``latex_to_bakoma``, ``latex_to_cmex``, ``latex_to_standard``,
- ``stix_virtual_fonts``,
- ``tex2uni``

Removal of various ``mathtext`` helpers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following `matplotlib.mathtext` classes:
- ``MathtextBackendPdf``,
- ``MathtextBackendPs``,
- ``MathtextBackendSvg``,
- ``MathtextBackendCairo``,
and the ``.mathtext_parser`` attributes on
- `.RendererPdf`,
- `.RendererPS`,
- `.RendererSVG`,
- `.RendererCairo`
have been removed. The `.MathtextBackendPath` class can be used instead.

The methods ``get_depth``, ``parse``, ``to_mask``, ``to_rgba``, and ``to_png``
of `.MathTextParser` have been removed. Use `.mathtext.math_to_image` instead.

The unused ``StandardPsFonts.pswriter`` has been removed.

``ps.useafm`` removed for ``mathtext``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The setting :rc:`ps.useafm` do not have any effect on `matplotlib.mathtext`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The setting :rc:`ps.useafm` no longer has any effect on `matplotlib.mathtext`.
```

> Removal of deprecated ``mathtext`` APIs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Removal of deprecated `matplotlib.mathtext` APIs
```
For modules it's usually clearer to state the full name.

Author: I seem to have read that it is preferred to not have links in the headings. (But tried to change it elsewhere.)

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The following :mod:`.mathtext` APIs have been removed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following `matplotlib.mathtext` APIs have been removed:
```

We use 'py:obj' as sphinx default role, so we can leave out `:mod:` and similar qualifiers, which improves readability of the plain texts.

Author: OK! I used https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/blob/main/doc/api/next_api_changes/removals/22081-AL.rst as a reference, but I see your point.

Reviewer 2: It's more important in docstrings than in rst-files. But I tend to use the same everywhere.

``MathtextBackendBitmap``,
``MathtextBackendPs``,
``MathtextBackendPdf``,
``MathtextBackendSvg``,
``MathtextBackendCairo``,
``ship``,
``Fonts``,
``TruetypeFonts``,

> ``StandardPsFonts``,

Reviewer: Missing all subclasses of these: `BakomaFonts`, `UnicodeFonts`, `DejaVuFonts`, `DejaVuSerifFonts`, `DejaVuSansFonts`, `StixFonts`, `StixSansFonts`.

Author: See comment regarding `Accent`. Same here.

``FontConstantsBase``,
``ComputerModernFontConstants``,
``STIXFontConstants``,
``STIXSansFontConstants``,
``DejaVuSerifFontConstants``,
``DejaVuSansFontConstants``,
``FontConstantsBase``,
``Node``,
``Box``,
``Char``,
``Glue``,

> ``Kern``,

Reviewer: Missing all subclasses of these, `Accent`, `List`, etc.

Author: Hmm, I wonder what happened here. I used the deprecation code to print much of that list. So those classes did not import in 3.5.1 (and were not deprecated). 

```
In [1]: from matplotlib.mathtext import Accent
Traceback (most recent call last):

  File "C:\Users\Oscar\AppData\Local\Temp/ipykernel_8/2606447054.py", line 1, in <module>
    from matplotlib.mathtext import Accent

ImportError: cannot import name 'Accent' from 'matplotlib.mathtext' (C:\Users\Oscar\miniconda3\lib\site-packages\matplotlib\mathtext.py)

In [2]: import matplotlib

In [3]: matplotlib.__version__
Out[3]: '3.5.1'
```

I guess that the actual problem was maybe that they were removed without deprecation earlier, but I can for sure add them here.

Reviewer: Ah yes, I don't think it was intended to remove them, but it happened and no-one has complained so far. The vaguer 'its subclasses' will do instead of enumerating all of them.

``Ship``,
``Parser``,
``SHRINK_FACTOR``,
``GROW_FACTOR``,
``NUM_SIZE_LEVELS``,
``latex_to_bakoma``,
``latex_to_cmex``,
``latex_to_standard``,
``stix_virtual_fonts``, and
``tex2uni``

The methods ``to_mask``, ``to_rgba``, ``to_png``, and ``get_depth`` of

> ``MathTextParser`` have been removed. Use ``mathtext.math_to_image`` instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`.MathTextParser` have been removed. Use `matplotlib.mathtext.math_to_image`
instead.
```
We can link to still existing classes, which may be helpful for the reader to get more context.

The named keyword argument ``_force_standard_ps_fonts`` of

> ``MathTextParser.parse`` has been removed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`.MathTextParser.parse` has been removed.
```

Author: I rewrote most this completely.

> ``MathTextParser.parse`` has been removed.

Reviewer: The argument is private and irrelevant here. What changed is handling of the `ps.useafm` rcParam.

> The following :mod:.`_mathtext` APIs have been removed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following `matplotlib._mathtext` APIs have been removed:
```

> ``Fonts.destroy()``, ``TruetypeFonts.destroy()``, and ``StandardPsFonts.pswriter()``

Reviewer: These are not public, so not relevant here.

Author: OK! Wasn't sure about those.
